3.5 Transient sensitive data is 
securely deleted from temporary 
storage facilities automatically by 
the software once the purpose for 
which it is retained is satisfied.
3.5.a The assessor shall examine evidence to identify the 
methods implemented to render transient sensitive data 
irretrievable and to confirm that sensitive data is unrecoverable 
after the process is complete. 
Note: This includes data which may be stored only temporarily 
in program memory / variables during operation of the software.
Where sensitive data is only retained temporarily to 
perform a specific function (such as a payment 
transaction), mechanisms are required to securely 
delete the sensitive data once the specific function 
has completed.
Transient sensitive data is often erased from 
temporary storage locations after processing is 
complete. However, that data may remain resident 
in volatile memory (RAM) or in other storage 
locations for longer periods than anticipated (such 
as in swap files/partitions or log files).
Software vendors should account for all locations 
where sensitive data is stored, regardless of the 
intended duration of storage, and ensure that such 
data is securely deleted once the purpose for which 
the software collected the data has been satisfied.
3.5.b The assessor shall examine evidence and test the 
software to identify any platform or implementation level issues 
that complicate the erasure of such transient sensitive 
data such as abstraction layers between the code and the 
hardware execution environment and to confirm that methods 
have been implemented to minimize the risk posed by these 
complications.
3.5.c The assessor shall test the software to identify any 
sensitive data residue in the execution environment and to 
confirm that the methods implemented are implemented 
correctly and enforced for all transient sensitive data. This 
analysis should accommodate for the data structures and 
methods used to store the sensitive data (for example, by 
examining file systems at the allocation level and translating 
data formats to identify sensitive data elements) and cover all 
non-transient sensitive data types.
Note: Where forensic testing of some or all aspects of the 
platform is not possible, the assessor should examine additional 
evidence to confirm secure deletion of sensitive data. Such 
evidence may include (but is not necessarily limited to) memory 
and storage dumps from development systems, evidence from 
memory traces from emulated systems, or evidence from 
physical extraction of data performed on-site by the software 
vendor.
